###School Student File (C)
**File Name:** SchoolStudent  
**Description:** This file consists of a record(s) for each student of the enrollment data associated with each entry and exit for every school that served the student within the current school year. A student should have a record for each enrollment. Multiple enrollment records within one school will be necessary if the student enters, exits and reenters a school. Entry and exit dates may not overlap for individual students.    

**Sample File Name:** 12345_0000_SchoolStudent_20070303.txt  

####Element C01 - School Year
**Field Name:** SchoolYear  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 4  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The ending year for the current school year for the district. The four digit year in which the current school year ends.  
**Business Rules:** For the 2008–2009 current school year, report 2009.  
**Example:** 2009  
**Valid Values:** 2009  
**Last Updated:** September 2007  

####Element C02 - Serving County District Code
**Field Name:** ServingCountyDistrictCode  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 5  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The County-District Code for the district providing service to the student. This is the unique 5-digit number that combines the 2-digit county code and the 3-digit district code.  
**Business Rules:**Must be a valid value, County-District Code, from the County-District Codes in Appendix A. Numeric value. Use leading zeros as necessary. Report the code representing the district as assigned by OSPI in Appendix A.  
**Example:** 12345  
**Valid Values:** Refer to valid values table in Appendix A.  
**Last Updated:** September 2007  

####Element C03 - District Student ID
**Field Name:** DistrictStudentID  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 50  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** This is the student identifier assigned by the district to the student. This data element is used in the matching of district data with records in CEDARS.  
**Business Rules:** The value is unique within the school district. The value can be any combination of alpha and/or numeric values up to fifty characters in length. This ID should follow the student throughout their enrollment within the district and should not be reassigned to another student.  
**Example:** 123456789012 or 124 or TG096  
**Last Updated:** September 2007  

####Element C04 - State Student ID (SSID)
**Field Name:** SSID  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 10  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional. If the district does not provide data, OSPI will issue the SSID number.  
**Description:** Randomly generated number that functions as a unique student identifier for each Washington public school student. This number is assigned by OSPI. The SSID is not based on the name of the student.  
**Business Rules:** SSID values must be exactly 10 digits in length and only contain numeric values.  
Uploading two or more student records from the same district with identical SSIDs, but with different District Student IDs, will trigger an exception error.  
SSID numbers must not begin with a zero. A Null value indicates a new student with no previously issued SSID and will trigger the SSID assignment/matching process. Students who are home schooled and receive services through the school district (Running Start, special education, etc.) shall be issued an SSID number and reported in CEDARS.  
**Example:** 1234567890  
**Last Updated:** September 2007  

####Element C05 - Location ID
**Field Name:** LocationId  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 4  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The Location ID for the school as generated by the District’s Student Information System, SIS.  
**Business Rules:** This is an internal number generated by the District and is required.  
If you do not have an ID assigned to this field, report the OSPI School Code reported in [Element A5](\A-Location.md#element-a05---school-code), School Code.  
The ID reported in Element C05 must be included in the [Location File A](\A-Location.md).  
**Example:** 1234  
**Last Updated:** September 2007

####Element C06 - Data Student Enrolled in School
**Field Name:** SchoolEnrollmentDate  
**Data Type:** datetime	MM/DD/YYYY Format.  
**Size:** See Data Type Definitions  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The date on which the student is scheduled to begin attending class.  
**Business Rules:** This is the first day the student attends school or begins receiving services.  
This date must be equal to or greater than, the date contained in [Element B14](\B-DistrictStudent.md#element-b14---data-enrolled-in-district), Date Enrolled in District.  
Continuously enrolled status for the school will be calculated for WASL purposes based on this element and [Element C08](#element-c08---date-student-exited-from-school), Date Student Exited from School.  
If during this current school year, the student exits the school and then returns, the date the student returned to the school and resumed participation in class becomes the school enrollment date. The school enrollment date shall be reported in the current school year in which the enrollment occurred.   
If the student exits and returns one or more times within a current school year, all of the entry/exit dates shall be reported (requires multiple entries for the student).  
If a student has multiple records the Date Student Enrolled in School may not overlap with another record for the student.  
If the student enrolls during the summer when school is not in session, use the date the student will begin classes (the first day of the current school year) as the school enrollment date.   
The Enrollment Date must be on or after [Element B09](\B-DistrictStudent.md#element-b09---birth-date), Birth Date.  
**Example:** 1/1/2000 or 01/01/2000  
**Last Updated:** May 2009  

####Element C07 - School Entry Code
**Field Name:** SchoolEntryCode  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 60  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. This is an optional field.  
**Description:** Student entry code from the District’s Student Information System, (SIS) if captured.  
**Business Rules:** Free Form.  Must be equal to or less than 60 characters.  
**Example:** Basic Enrollment  
**Last Updated:** January 2008

####Element C08 - Date Student Exited from School
**Field Name:** SchoolExitDate  
**Data Type:** datetime   MM/DD/YYYY Format.  
**Size:** See Data Type Definitions.  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional.  See Business Rules.  
**Description:** The date on which the student withdraws from the school (left the school or moved to a different school). Remember to fill in the element "Date Student Exited from District" if the student has also left the district.  
**Business Rules:** This is the last day the student attends school or receives services.  
This date must be equal to or greater than the date in [Element C06](#element-c06---date-student-enrolled-in-school), Date Student Enrolled in School.  
If the student exits during the summer, use the actual date on which the student left the school.  
If the student enters and exits on the same date, the same date is used in Elements [B14](\B-DistrictStudent.md#element-b14---data-enrolled-in-district), [B15](\B-DistrictStudent.md#element-b15---date-exited-from-district), [C06](#element-c06---date-student-enrolled-in-school) and [C08](#element-c08---date-student-exited-from-school).   
If the student exits and returns within the same current school year, all of the entry/exit dates shall be reported (requires multiple entries for the student).  
Continuously enrolled status for the school will be calculated for WASL purposes based on this element and [Element C06](#element-c06---date-student-enrolled-in-school), Date Student Enrolled in School.  
**Example:** 1/1/2000 or 01/01/2000  
**Last Updated:** May 2009

####Element C09 - School Withdrawal Code
**Field Name:** SchoolWithdrawalCode  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 2  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional.  See Business Rules below.  
**Description:** When a student has withdrawn from the school, this element contains the code identifying the type/reason for the withdrawal.  
**Business Rules:** See Valid Values below. Use the numeric character 0 for zero, not the letter O.  
If the value in Element C09 is C2 then the value for [Element B16](\B-DistrictStudent.md#element-b16---disability-code), Disability Code, must be greater than 0 (zero) and the student must be included in the Student Special Education Programs File K.  
If the value in Element C09 is T0, G0, C1, C2, or C3, then [Element B15](\B-DistrictStudent.md#element-b15---date-exited-from-district), Date Exited from District, and [Element C08](#element-c08---date-student-exited-from-school), Date Exited from School are required and must contain the same date.  
If the value in Element C09 is T1, then [Element C08](#element-c08---date-student-exited-from-school), Date Exited from School is required.  
**Example:** G0  
**Valid Values:** G0 – Graduated with regular High School Diploma  
C1 – Confirmed receipt of General Education Development (GED) certificate  
C2 – Confirmed completion of Individualized Education Program (IEP)  
C3 – Confirmed receipt of adult high school diploma  
T0 – Confirmed transfer out of the school district  
D1 – Expelled or suspended and did not return  
D2 – Attended 4 years or more and did not graduate (student drops or ages out)  
D3 – Lack of academic progress or poor grades  
D4 – School not for me  
D5 – Married or needs to support family  
D6 – Pregnant or had baby  
D7 – Offered training or chose to work  
D8 – Chose to stay home  
D9 – Drugs or alcohol related  
D0 – Other (dropped out, but reason unknown)  
U1 – Unknown  
U2 – Enrolled in prior year, but no show this year  
U3 – Transfer reported by student (not confirmed)  
ZZ – Deceased  
T1 – Confirmed transfer out of the school within district  
Refer to the valid values in Appendix M.  
**Last Updated:**  May 2009

####Element C10 - Is this the School that is Primarily Responsible for the Student
**Field Name:** IsPrimarySchool  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 1  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** Indicates whether or not this is the school with primary responsibility for the student.  
**Business Rules:** See the Valid Values below.  
Each student must have only one school of primary responsibility designated at any point in time during the academic school year. For students who attend only one school in the state of Washington, that one school is the school primarily responsible for the student.  
For students who move from one school to another school in the same reporting period, it is possible that two or more records will be submitted indicating more than one school as the primary school for a given student. In this case, entry and exit dates should not overlap for each of the schools flagged as being a school of primary responsibility. The school entry and exit dates ([C06](#element-c06---date-student-enrolled-in-school) and [C08](#element-c08---date-student-exited-from-school)) for each of the schools will be used to determine that the records are not in error.  
There are cases where a student attends more than one school in the state of Washington simultaneously, and following are some guidelines to assist you in determining which school to flag as the school primarily responsible for the student.  
* If a student receives services in another district (part time or full time) by way of an inter-district agreement, then the sending school is the school of primary responsibility, unless the inter-district agreement specifies otherwise.
* If a student attends two schools within the same district, it is up to the district to choose one of those schools to be primarily responsible for the student’s education. This can be done by choosing the school that is geographically located closest to the student’s residence, or by another method that the district deems acceptable.
* If a student attends a skill center in addition to another high school, then the student’s sending high school continues to be the student’s school of primary responsibility. Note: a student cannot attend only a skill center; they must be assigned to a high school.
  * If a student takes online (distance learning courses, this data element is coded ‘Y’ only when the online school is, in fact, the student’s school of primary responsibility.
* If a home school student participates in Running Start full time, then the school s/he would attend if enrolled in the district is the school of primary responsibility.  

**Example:** Y  
**Valid Values:** N - No  
Y - Yes  
**Last Updated:** August 2009  

####Elemnent C11 - School Choice Code
**Field Name:** SchoolChoiceCode  
**Data Type:** Numeric  
**Size:** See Data Type Definitions  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** Indicates whether or not the student is attending your school as a result of the school choice option as defined in NCLB, Section 1116(b)(1)(E).  
In addition, children are eligible for school choice if they attend any "persistently dangerous school". Any child who has been the victim of a violent crime on the grounds of his or her school is also eligible for school choice. (Title IX, section 9532 of ESEA).  
Note: Students enrolled based on an inter-district agreement should not be reported as “school choice”.  
**Business Rules:** See the Valid Values below.  
**Example:** 1 or 01  
**Valid Values:** 0 – Not Applicable.  
1 – Public School Choice (Federal requirement - NCLB)  
Parents have selected this school because the student’s school of geographic residence has failed to meet AYP requirements as defined in NCLB.  
2 – Persistently Dangerous Schools (Federal requirement - NCLB)  
Parents have selected this school because the student’s school of geographic residence has been identified as “Persistently Dangerous” as defined in NCLB.  
3 – Student Enrollment Options (State Law)  
Parents have selected this school because the student/parents choose to have the student attend another school based on the provisions of RCW 28A.225.310  
**Last Updated:**  

####Element C12 - Cumulative Days Present this Enrollment Period
**Field Name:** CumulativeDaysPresent  
**Data Type:** Numeric  
**Size:** See Data Type Definitions  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The total cumulative number of days the student has been present and in attendance in this enrollment period for this school.  
**Business Rules:** Must be a positive number less than or equal to 366. For this purpose, enrollment period is defined as the first day of enrollment in this school, during this school year, through the end of the reporting month. If the student enrolls in a school multiple times in the same school year, report only from the first day of the most current enrollment within this school year. This total is a cumulative total number, and the total should reflect any corrections made to the student’s enrollment and attendance that have been made since the last reporting month.  
**Example:** For a submission of November data – the student enrolled on October 5th and continued the enrollment through the end of November. There are 30 school days between October 5th and November 30th, and the student was absent 6 days. This element should then reflect 24 (30 school days – 6 days absent).  
**Last Updated:** January 2008

####Element C13 - Cumulative Number of Unexcused Absences Enrollment Period
**Field Name:** NumUnexcusedAbsence  
**Data Type:** Numeric  
**Size:** See Data Type Definitions  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The number of cumulative days unexcused school absences the student had during this enrollment period for this school as determined RCW 28A.225.020 and district policy.    
**Business Rules:** Must be a positive number less than or equal to 366. For this purpose, enrollment period is defined as the first day of enrollment in this school, during this school year, through the end of the reporting month. If the student enrolls in a school multiple times in the same school year, report only from the first day of the most current enrollment within this school year. This total is a cumulative total, and the total should reflect any corrections made to the student’s unexcused absences that have been made since the last reporting month.  
An unexcused absence means a student has not attended a majority of hour or periods in a school day and has not met the conditions for an excused absences (RCW 28A.225.020).  
**Example:** For a submission of November data – the student enrolled on October 5th and continued the enrollment through the end of November. There were 30 school days between October 5th and November 30th, and the student was absent 6 days. Two of these days were unexcused absences, so this element should then reflect 2.  
**Last Updated:** January 2008  