###Course Catalog File (D)
**File Name:** CourseCatalog  
**Description:** This file is a catalog of all courses for all grades in the current school year offered at each school in the district. There should be one record for each course offered at each school within the district. For example, if Eng101 is offered at two schools, there would be two records in this file for Eng101, one for each school in the district offering the course.  

Sample File Name:	   12345_0000_CourseCatalog_20070303.txt

####Element D01 - School Year
**Field Name:** SchoolYear  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 4  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The ending year for the current school year for the district. The four digit year in which the current school year ends.  
**Business Rules:** For the 2008–2009 current school year, report 2009.  
**Example:** 2009  
**Valid Values:** 2009  
**Last Updated:** September 2007  

####Element D02 - Serving County District Code
**Field Name:** ServingCountyDistrictCode  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 5  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The County-District Code for the district providing service to the student. This is the unique 5-digit number that combines the 2-digit county code and the 3-digit district code.  
**Business Rules:**Must be a valid value, County-District Code, from the County-District Codes in Appendix A. Numeric value. Use leading zeros as necessary. Report the code representing the district as assigned by OSPI in Appendix A.  
**Example:** 12345  
**Valid Values:** Refer to valid values table in Appendix A.  
**Last Updated:** September 2007  

####Element D03 - Location ID
**Field Name:** LocationId  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 4  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The Location ID for the school as generated by the District’s Student Information System, SIS.  
**Business Rules:** This is an internal number generated by the District and is required.  
If you do not have an ID assigned to this field, report the OSPI School Code reported in [Element A5](\A-Location.md#element-a05---school-code), School Code.  
The ID reported in Element C05 must be included in the [Location File A](\A-Location.md).  
**Example:** 1234  
**Last Updated:** September 2007

####Element D04 - Course ID
**Field Name:** CourseId  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 20  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The course ID used by the district or school to represent the unique course number.  
**Business Rules:** Include the Course ID for grades PK–12.  
**Example:** Hist101A16  
**Last Updated:** August 2008

####Element D05 - Course Title
**Field Name:** CourseTitle  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 50  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** Course title given to the course in this school and district.  
**Business Rules:** Include the Course Title for grades PK–12.  
**Example:** Pre AP English 11  
**Last Updated:** August 2008

####Element D06 - Content Area Code
**Field Name:** ContentAreaCode  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 3  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** Primary content area of the course.  
**Business Rules:** Must be a valid Content Area Code from the Content Area Codes found in Appendix O. Include the Content Area Code for grades 7–12 and grade 6 students with scheduled courses and various teachers (middle school). Content Area Codes for grade PK–5 should be submitted using “ 1- Elementary Curriculum”.  
**Example:** 7  
**Valid Values:** Refer to the valid values in Appendix O.
**Last Updated:** January 2009

####Element D07 - Course Designation Code
**Field Name:** CourseDesignationCode  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 10  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional.  
**Description:** The Course Designation Code per the Washington State High School Transcript. Include Course Designation Codes for grades 7–12 for all courses that receive high school credit.  
**Business Rules:** See Valid Values below.  
**Example:** IC  
**Valid Values:** I – International Baccalaureate  
C – College in the High School  
T – Tech Prep  
H – Honors  
A – Advanced Placement  
R – Running Start  
B – HECB Core  
O - Online (does not print on the transcript)  
**Last Updated:** August 2009

####D08 - State Course Code
**Field Name:** StateCourseCode  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 6  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional. See Business Rules for implementation schedule.  
**Description:** The course code used by the State to represent the unique course.   
**Business Rules:** Must be a valid code from the State Course Codes found in Appendix V.  Include State Course Codes for grades PK–12 with scheduled courses and various teachers. State Course Codes will be required on the following schedule:
Subject areas | Date required to be reported
------------- | -------------
Math | November 2009
Science | November 2009
English/Language Arts | March 2010
Social Studies | March 2010
Foreign Language | March 2010
All Others | May 2010
**Example:** 02154 – This is the code for Business Math.  
**Valid Values:** Refer to the valid values table in Appendix V.  
**Last Updated:** January 2009

####Element D09 - Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate Code
**Field Name:** APIBCourseCode  
**Data Type:** Num  
**Size:** Decimal (4,2)  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional.  
**Description:** The assigned code for the Advanced Placement (AP) International Baccalaureate (IB) course associated with this course. This data element will be removed starting school year 2010 when State Course Codes are fully implemented.  
**Business Rules:** Must be a valid value Course Code from the Advanced Placement Course Codes found in Appendix Q.  
If [Element D07](#element-d07---course-designation-code), Course Designation Code, contains an A, Advance Placement or I, International Baccalaureate, and D08 State Course Code is not provided then Element D09 must have a valid AP / IB Code from Appendix Q. Districts who have fully adopted State Course Codes by September 2009 for all subjects do not need to enter this code (can be extracted from State Course Code).  
**Example:** 1234.56  
**Valid Values:** Refer to the valid table in Appendix Q.  
**Last Updated:** May 2009

####Element D10 - Classification of Instructional Program Code Number
**Field Name:** CIPCode  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 6  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional. Data is required for Career and Technical Education (CTE) courses.  
**Description:** The Classification of Instructional Program (CIP) Code Number assigned by OSPI to the approved Career and Technical Education (CTE) course.  
**Business Rules:** Must be a valid value, CIP Code Number, from the CIP Code Numbers and Course Titles for Approved CTE Courses found in Appendix S.  
If [Element D07](#element-d07---course-designation-code), Course Designation Code, contains a T, Tech Prep, then Element D10 must have a valid CIP Code Number.  
**Example:** 010103  
**Valid Values:** Refer to the approved CIP valid values table in Appendix S.  
**Last Updated:** September 2007

####Element D11 - Is Career and Technical Education Direct Transcription Available
**Field Name:** IsDirectTranscriptionAvailable  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 1  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional. See Business Rules.  
**Description:** Indicates whether or not direct transcription is available to the student for the vocational course in which the student enrolled as indicated by the CIP code number in [Element D10](#element-d10---classification-of-instructional-program-code-number). Direct transcription is only provided if the course is part of a Tech Prep articulation agreement – but some Tech Prep courses do not yet offer direct transcription.  
**Business Rules:** See Valid Values below.  
If data is entered in [Element D10](#element-d10---classification-of-instructional-program-code-number), CIP Code, then data is required in Element D11. CEDARS will not accept NULL values.  
If [Element D07](#element-d07---course-designation-code), Course Designation Code, does not contain a T, Tech Prep, then Element D11 must be N.  
**Example:** Y  
**Valid Values:** N - No  
Y - Yes  
**Last Updated:** September 2007