###Staff File (F)
**File Name:** Staff
**Description:** This file contains information about district staff teaching a course or assigned to a homeroom for the current school year in grades PK–12. There should be one entry for each staff type for each staff member. If a staff member serves more than one school, then that information is captured in the Staff Schedule [File G](\G-StaffSchedule.md).

**Sample File Name:** 12345_0000_Staff_20070303.txt

####Element F01 - School Year
**Field Name:** SchoolYear  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 4  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The ending year for the current school year for the district. The four digit year in which the current school year ends.  
**Business Rules:** For the 2008–2009 current school year, report 2009.  
**Example:** 2009  
**Valid Values:** 2009  
**Last Updated:** September 2007  

####Element F02 - Serving County District Code
**Field Name:** ServingCountyDistrictCode  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 5  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The County-District Code for the district providing service to the student. This is the unique 5-digit number that combines the 2-digit county code and the 3-digit district code.  
**Business Rules:**Must be a valid value, County-District Code, from the County-District Codes in Appendix A. Numeric value. Use leading zeros as necessary. Report the code representing the district as assigned by OSPI in Appendix A.  
**Example:** 12345  
**Valid Values:** Refer to valid values table in Appendix A.  
**Last Updated:** September 2007  

####Element F03 - Staff ID
**Field Name:** StaffId  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 20  
**Allow NULL?:** No. May not be left blank. Data is required.  
**Description:** The staff code as generated by the District and is required.  
**Business Rules:** This is an internal number generated by the District. If you do not have an ID assigned to this field use the OSPI Certification Number. If you are using placeholder values, do not submit records with placeholder StaffIDs.  
The value is unique within the school district. The value can be any combination of alpha and/or numeric values up to twenty characters in length. This ID should follow the staff member throughout their employment with the district and should not be reassigned to another staff member.  
**Example:** 123456789101112 or 123 or 315502E  
**Last Updated:** September 2007

####Element F04 - Staff Type Code
**Field Name:** StaffTypeCode  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 8  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional. Data must be entered for all staff types listed in [F05](#element-f05---certification-number).  
**Description:** The type of staff member (i.e., Elementary Teacher, Secondary Teacher).  
**Business Rules:** Must be a valid value, Staff Type Code, from the Staff Type Codes in Appendix U.  
**Example:** 311  
**Valid Values:** Refer to the valid values table in Appendix U.  
**Last Updated:** January 2009

####Element F05 - Certification Number
**Field Name:** CertificationNumber  
**Data Type:** char  
**Size:** 7  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional. Data must be entered for all educators who teach classes in Washington State schools.  
**Description:** The State Certification number assigned to this staff member’s certificate.  
**Business Rules:** The State Certification number as maintained by the district. The certification must be a valid Washington State Certification number, a Z number, or temporary permit. In some extraordinary cases the teacher certificate may not exist. If this is the case please enter UNK.  
Element F05 may only be blank when [Element F04](#element-f04---staff-type-code), Staff Type Code, is equal to one of the following Staff Type Codes.  
* 99y Director/Supervisor  
* 91y Aide  

If Element F04 does not contain one of the above values then Element F05 must contain a State Certification number.  
The Z number is reported as the Certification Number (A2) in the S275 Report for non-certified staff. If the teacher only holds a temporary teaching permit please enter T and the last 4 of the teachers SSN. If a teacher holds an Emergency teaching certificate please enter E and the last 4 of the teachers SSN. If the certification number does not exist on the OSPI Certification database, the entire record will be rejected.  
**Example:** 315502E, or Z123456, or T1234, or E1233  
**Last Updated:** May 2009

####Element F06 - Last Name
**Field Name:** LastName  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 60  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional. If Element F05 is not UNK, please report it.  
**Description:** The last name as maintained by the district of the staff member or the name that matches the certification record.  
**Business Rules:** The legal last name of the staff member as maintained by the district or the name listed on the State Certification.  
**Example:** Lincoln  
**Last Updated:** September 2007

####Element F07 - First Name
**Field Name:** FirstName  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 60  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional. If the staff member has a first name and Element F05 is not UNK, please report it.  
**Description:** The first name of the staff member as maintained by the district or the name that matches the certification record.  
**Business Rules:** The legal first name of the staff member as maintained by the district or the name listed on the State Certification.  
**Example:** Lilly  
**Last Updated:** October 2008

####Element F08 - Middle Name
**Field Name:** MiddleName  
**Data Type:** varchar  
**Size:** 60  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. This is an optional field.  
**Description:** The middle name as maintained by the district or the name that matches the certification record.  
**Business Rules:** The legal middle name of the staff member as maintained by the district or the name listed on the State Certification. If the staff member has no middle name, this data element may be blank.  
**Example:** Leone  
**Last Updated:** September 2007

####Element F09 - Birth Date
**Field Name:** BirthDate  
**Data Type:** datetime 	MM/DD/YYYY Format.  
**Size:** See Data Type Definitions.  
**Allow NULL?:** Yes. Conditional. If Element F05 is not UNK, please report it.  
**Description:** The staff member’s month, day and year of birth in the MM/DD/YYYY format.  
**Business Rules:** The date of birth provided must calculate an age of at least 18 years.  
**Example:** 3/2/1955 or 03/24/1955  
**Last Updated:** September 2007